The Joe Rogan.
Experience. Now, when you say civilizations fragile,
do you mean because of this COVID 19 that's going on right now?
What what's that? I never heard of it. It's this thing. Yeah know, it's like,
uh, some people just get a car don't idea what you're talking about.
Other people, it gets much worse.
Uh, sure.
Yeah.
Well, yeah.
I mean,
this certainly has taken over the mind space of the world to a degree that
is quite shocking. Yeah.
Well, outta nowhere, that's what's crazy.
It's like you go back to November nothing. Now here we are December, January,
February, March, April, may six months. Totally different world.
So from nothing to everything's locked down, there's so much, uh,
conflicting information and conflicting opinions about how to proceed.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> what, what has happened? You know,
you find things where there was a, a meat packing plant.
I believe in Missouri where 300 plus people
were asymptomatic tested positive or asymptomatic. And then in other places,
it just ravages entire communities and kills people. And it's, it's so weird.
It, it almost appears on the, like, if you didn't know anybody, you'd be like,
what,
it seems like there's a bunch of different viruses doesn't seem like it's the
same thing or has a bunch of different reactions to the
biological variety of, of people.
Yeah. Um, I mean, I,
I kind of saw this whole thing play out in China, uh, before it,
it played out in the us. So, um,
it's kinda like watching the same movie again. Um, but in English.
Uh <laugh> um, so
yeah, um,
I might, I think the, the, the, the, the mortality rate is,
is much less than what is
then what say the world health organization said it was,
it's very much marginalized.
It's like probably at least order of magnitude less.
Well, it seems to be very deadly,
to very specific kinds of people and people with specific problems.
Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
Yeah. I mean, if, if you're,
you can look at the mortality statistics know by age and whether they have
comorbidities, like, do they have like, basically existing conditions and, um,
by age, um, and the, you know, if,
if you're below 60 and,
and have no serious health issues, the probability of death is extremely low.
It's not zero, but is extremely low.
They didn't think that this was the case, though,
when they first started to lock down the country. Do you think that it's a,
a situation where once they've proceeded in a certain way,
it's very difficult to correct. Course.
It's almost like people really wanted a panic that, you know,
was quite quite crazy.
Um, but in some places, a panic is deserved. Right? Look,
if you're in the ICU in Manhattan and people are dying left and right,
and everyone's on debaters and it's, it,
it seems like when you see all these people on ventilators and so many of 'em
are dying and you see these nurses are dying and doctors are getting sick in
some places that fear is justified. But then in other places,
you're,
you're reading these stories about hospitals that are essentially half empty.
They're, they're having to furlough doctors and nurses,
because there's no work for them.
Most of the hospitals in the United States right now are half empty.
In some cases, there are 30% capacity.
And is this because they've decided to forego elective procedures and,
and, and normal thing that people would have to go to the hospital for.
Yes. I mean,
and we're not talking about just some of these elective procedures are quite
important. Yes. Like it's like, you have a bad.
Heart, fall, lot of disease. Yeah, sure. And you need.
A, you know, mm-hmm, <affirmative> triple bypass. It's like sort of elective,
but if you don't get it done in time, it's, you're gonna die. Yeah.
It's.
Electives a weird word. Yeah. Elective. It's not like, Hey, I,
I wanna isn't like plastic surgery or <laugh> right, right, right. It's um,
it's more like, like my, my hip is I'm in extreme pain cuz my,
my hip's blown out or my knee and I don't want to go to the hospital.
I can't go to the hospital to, you know, people in extreme pain,
people that need new, you know, like, like people that,
that have like quite serious issues that are choosing not to go out of fear. Um,
so I think it's, it's a problem. It's not good.
It seems like the state of public perception is shifting.
It is like people are taking some deep breaths and relaxing and,
and because of the statistics of, I mean, and,
and essentially across the board,
it's being recognized that it's not as fatal as we thought it was
still danger, still worse than the flu, but not as bad as we thought or,
or we feared. It could be.
Um, objectively the mortality is, is much lower. Like
at least the, of 10, maybe a factor of 50 lower than initially thought.
Do you think that the current way we're handling this,
the social distancing, the masks, the locking down, is it, does this make sense?
Is it adequate or, or do you think that we should move back to
closer to where we used to be?
Well, I think proper hygiene is a good thing. No matter what, yes. You know,
wash your hands and you know, and if you're, if you're coughing,
stay home or wear a mask, yes. This is not good. You know? Um,
in fact they do that in Japan. That's like normal. Yeah. If you're,
if you're ill, you, you wear a face mask and you don't cough on people. Uh,
I think that that would be a great thing to, to adopt in general,
throughout the world. Um, uh,
washing your hands is also good.
Well, that's a speculation. Why men get it more than women?
Cuz men are disgusting. We don't wash hands.
Disgusting. It's true. It's true.
I admit it. We're all men in this room.
We're all gross. Yeah. Let's go to the restroom. You can see it. Yes. Yes.
We're.
Gross. My daughter, my nine year old daughter yells at me, she goes,
did you wash your hands? She makes me go back and wash my hands. Hmm.
She's right. Nine years old. If I had a nine year old boy,
you think you would care? No, I wouldn't give a if I want my hands.
True. Um, so yeah, I think there there's,
there's definitely some civil linings here, uh, that in improved, uh, you know,
uh, hygiene and.
And awareness of potential. Yes.
And I, I think this has, uh, shaken up the, the system, uh,
system is like somewhat Mar with Lalas layers of bureaucracy.
And I think that we've, you cut through some of that bureaucracy. Uh,
and if we, you know, at some point there probably will be a, uh,
pandemic with, with a, with a, with a high mortality rate, uh, you know,
debate about like what's high,
but I mean like someone that's killing a lot of 20 year olds,
let's say like it's, if you had like Ebola type of mortality,
Spanish.
Flu something, taxi immune systems of healthy people.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, but it's a, yeah,
like killing large numbers of young, healthy people that that's,
you know, define that as like, uh, uh,
high mortality then that this is at least practice for something like that. Um,
and I think there this, you know, given just a matter,
a matter of time that there, there will be eventually some, some such pandemic.
Do you think that in a sense,
the one good thing that we might get out of this is the realization that this is
a potential reality that we, we got lucky in the sense, I mean,
and people that didn't get lucky and died,
of course I'm not disrespecting their death and their loss,
but I'm saying overall as a, as a culture, as a commun, as a human race,
as a community, this is not as bad as it could have been.
This is a good dry run for us to,
to appreciate that we need far more resources
dedicated towards the understanding these diseases,
what to do in the case of pandemic and much more money that goes to
funding treatments and, and some preventative measures.
Yeah, absolutely. Um, and I think, I think there's a, a good chance.
So it's highly likely, I think coming out of this that, uh, we will develop, uh,
vaccines that we didn't have before, uh, for, uh,
coronavirus and other other viruses, um, and, and possibly cures,
uh, for, for these, um, and our understanding of, uh,
viruses of this nature has improved dramatically because of the attention that
it it's received. So there's definitely some, you know,
a lot of silver linings here. Um.
And, uh, potentially if we act correctly.
Yeah, yeah, yeah. There's, uh, I think there will be some amount of lining here,
no matter what, um, hopefully it could be more of lining than less. Yeah.
Um, so yeah, this, this is, uh,
this like kinda like a practice run for something to have that had a potential
that might in the future have a serious,
like a really high mortality rate that's and we kind of
got to go through this with, with, without,
without it being something that kills, you know, vast numbers of young,
healthy people. Yeah.
When you made a series of tweets recently, uh, you know, uh,
I don't remember the exact wording,
but essentially you were saying free America now. Like let's, uh.
That is it. Thank.
You.